From Hansel minutes.com it's Hansel
minutes, a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number two 16. Recorded
live Thursday, June 3rd, 2010. Support for
Hanselman it's just provided by
teller at rad controls. The
most comprehensive suite of components
for windows forums and asp.net
web applications online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this
episode, Scott and his wife
mode talk peak relationship tips.
Hello, small life. Hi there.
This is another episode of
Hansel minutes. So you had
had the idea Mo Mo
is my wife, everyone say
hello to Mo Hi everyone,
to do a show on
Being married to a geek.
And that sounded more like
a coping mechanism show. Like
you would teach people how
to, I don't know, get
over being married to someone
who is so horribly damaged,
like a geek, but I
think that calling it key
relationship tips is so much,
so much of a better
title than coping with coping
with attention deficit disorder. That's
right before you get a
divorce people listen to this
show. I don't think this
show is going to help
anyone not get a divorce,
but that's what I wonder
if they pause it avoiding
divorce with geeks, Right? Yeah.
So geek relationship tips, I
think, is what we're going
to call it because there's
a lot of people out
there who are listening that
are programmers. And would you
say Mo that programmers have
different personalities? Did quirks stylistic?
Yeah, I would. I mean,
pretty much in a word
program is a weird sort
of your own breed you're
out there on your own.
And it takes a while
to kind of understand the
person behind the weirdness. But
once you do, I think
it kind of makes sense.
And is this weird in
a, like some kind of
damaged way? Or we just
like things just so, I
mean, it's not like I'm
lining up my silverware a
certain way, like making sure
it's all perpendicular to the
plate and then, Yeah, not
quite, not quite to that
extent, but I mean, you
know, you definitely like your
things a certain way, right?
You, you like your peanut
butter and you will notice
the difference between if I
came, what was that this
morning? It was chunky and
freaking peanut butter. What was
that? Yeah. You know, anybody
else Choked that peanut butter
down this morning, that was
some of the nastiest, where
was the cream, The peanut
butter, who does that? Who
notices that level of detail?
The minutia, you know, to
that point, you know, I
mean this morning, this Is
the tragedy of my life
for the, for the listener
this morning, I choked down
a peanut butter and jelly
sandwich with, with high fructose
corn syrup, strawberry jelly, not
the low sugar jelly I'm
used to and, and, and
some kind of expired. It
was like, it had an
expiration date of January, 2010. I
always check the expiration dates
and right, this is true
of crunchy peanut butter. And
I'm like, why, who would
crunchy peanut butter? What is
that? Who would put peanuts
and peanut butter? And, and
that's definitely not cause we're
on vacation right now. That's
right. So we rented a
house and the house has
a lot of the, you
know, the basic stuff, you
bring your own food, but
they have all the ketchup
and the condiments and what
have you. And they had
the peanut butter. So we
didn't bring our own peanut
butter and Ketchup is a
condom. And I can understand
that you need to catch
it, but who doesn't bring
peanut butter, but we digress.
That's a protein. We digress
on this issue Then let's
talk about really. Okay. So
when we got married, you
were just out of business
school. Yeah. And you had
the idea early on, I
think, cause we had only
dated. We've been married now
going on 10 years as
long as, and you should
know that. No, but it's
like 11 years since 2010,
but we got married. Oh,
you're right. 2000. Okay Dude,
come on, man. This is
not a sheet. I need
to worry about it. But
the thing is exactly. You
don't remember that, but do
you remember the peanut butter?
I thought it was 11
years. It feels like 12.
Oh man. You had had
the idea that we would
make a geek, not a
geek mission statement that we
would have a mission statement,
like a business. We would
say, this is what our
marriage believes in. Yeah. I
mean, you know, again, being
people with different backgrounds, but
both being college educated and
what have you been having
a business mind? It, it
seemed to make sense for
us to define who we
were going to be as
a couple, what we were
going to be about and
the kinds of things that
we want. And you have
a goal for anything that
matters to you. And I
think for both of us,
this marriage was important. And
so we kind of goodness
for that. Yeah, exactly. What
a coincidence. Yeah. So I
think we're both in agreement
that we should come down,
write down something or not
write down, but think about
what is it that we
want out of life. It's
not like we had it
like framed and stuff, although
we could have done that.
It's that good? Yeah. Where
does that go? T shirts.
What is the mission statement
we came up with you
tell me, is this a
test or I was just
trying to, I was as
a good host. I was
trying to defer to you.
Our mission statement was to
have a drama free marriage.
We just basically decided that
our marriage wouldn't kind of
to use kind of an
old American stereotype. It wouldn't
spill out into the front
yard and bother the neighbors.
We would keep our drama
to it, to a minimum.
And, and by drama, we
just wanted to figure out
what were those things that
typically cause drama and trouble
and marriages and we could
remove them. So then we
could focus on the really
good drama and not the
basic stuff that becomes a
big problem. So we came
up with a couple of
ideas on what we could
do to make it just
easier. When we said drama
free. We just saying that
we don't want to have
to fight about regular stuff
on a regular basis for
the last 10 years And
be calling the cops and
be going to the hospital
and be cutting each other,
whatever, you know, I mean
it's drama, But definitely I
think avoiding, cutting each other
is definitely a higher high
on the marriage tips avoid
cutting. Right. What's wrong with
you? No, this is more,
this is this. These are
really mundane tips even. Yeah.
But they make life easier.
And the first one that
you came up with was
the allowance system. Yeah. And
actually I think you are
the one that came up
with this, you know, one
of the things that a
lot of couples fight about
is money and they, they
just can never seem to
agree. How many accounts do
you have? You know, who
handles some money and what
have you. And I think
right off the bat, I
mean, I still remember to
this day that you said
two things, you said, you
know, one of the things
was avoid resentment. And the
other thing was that this
is figure out the money
situation. So we've never really
had any kind of arguments
about money because you, you,
we set it up so
that it was an open
system. And one of the
ways to do that was
exactly that to do that
alone. Right? And this isn't
about having a lot of
money or having a little
money. This is a cause
we've had arguments about there
isn't enough money to do
XYZ. Those kinds of arguments
are handled. We're talking about
the basic paycheck to paycheck
arguments. Like what's this $8
at target, those kinds of
arguments, or why did you
buy a, an Xbox video
game for 50 bucks? We
don't have that money, right?
Those are things. Cause in
the first few months of
marriage, when we basically got
one account, we put all
the money into a pile,
we pay the bills. And
then what would happen is
if you imagine this looking
through an online and online
bank statement, you would see
rent, electricity, gas, and then
it would be like $2,
$3, $4, $2, $5, $8,
$12, $50. And it would
go on for pages and
it was just onesy, twosy,
little crap. And we would
sit there and we would
argue lowercase, lowercase, a right,
but we'd argue about four
50 for that. You got
your nails. Why are you
eating? You know, it's $70
lunch to two times, you
know, a week or whatever,
or exactly. So the idea
was what to make this
simpler, Just have an allowance.
And you use that for
all the trivial things. So
you want to take yourself
out to a fancy lunch
on Monday, Hey, you know
what, take yourself off to
a fancy lunch on Monday.
But when the allowance has
gone, the allowance has gone.
So from that point on,
we just eat at home,
Right? So we put all
of our money into one
account as a direct deposit,
then our rent and our,
the big bills, kind of
the five big bills or
whatever, you know, the insurance
and stuff like that comes
out. And then we pay
each other in cash and
allowance. Right? So let's just
pick a round number, say
a hundred bucks, you get
a hundred bucks, I get
a hire bucks and then
I can go and save
that money and eat at
home every day or I
can eat at Quizno's every
day, but then I can't
buy an Xbox game or
whatever. And you can have
your nails done or not,
or buy clothes or not.
And then suddenly the, the
online ledger, the online checkbook,
just, Yeah, the noise went
away. You know, the, the
$7 is on the $10
is, and all that background
noise that was obnoxious went
away. Cause you went from
what, you know, 200 entries
to download one 10 a
month or something like that.
It was a lot cleaner.
Okay. And I've got, so
I've got money in my
pocket. I've got a couple
of twenties in my pocket,
folding money. I like to
call it a little walking
around town money. And if
I want to take that
money and go and buy
a video game or whatever,
I can do that. Or
if I want to eat
at Chipotle every day, this
week, but it's a, but
when the money's gone, the
spending stops. Right. And that's
the trick, Right? So you
want to find an amount
that you're comfortable with that,
you know, you can take
your whole paycheck and make
an allowance if you want,
but that's not going to
work for you. Well, when
the bills come, so you
want to find an amount
that is appropriate for you
and your situation. And then
once it's gone do whatever
with it. And it's what
I like about it too,
is it's guilt-free because you
don't get to challenge me
then and say, why did
you spend your allowance on
that? It's at my discretion.
What I want to do
with it is what I
want to do with it.
Right. I can blow it
all at once. I can
keep it all. Now this
of course doesn't count for
big family things like buying
a couch or if we
decided as a family to
buy a DVD player or
something. Right. But I mean,
I went and bought some
shoes that were, you know,
maybe a little, a little
more expensive, my prerogative. Cause
I had the cash a
little while back. I did
buy an Xbox, but I
saved up. Right. Right. And,
and it's, it's just like
allowance when you were a
kid, but it's amazing. The
argument that you don't have.
I mean, I'll come in
to the house, to the
house and I'll see a
big pile of clothes that
you've bought from somewhere. But
I don't have to feel
bad. I don't have to
resent. I don't have to
worry or be suspicious. All
those complex emotions go away
because you get the same
allowance that I do. Right.
And you obviously, you, you
know, you don't have any
hidden credit cards. There's any
secret credit cards. So you
must have paid for it
with your allowance. Therefore I
can, I can focus on
the, Oh, this is a
nice outfit and this isn't
that great. Exactly. Exactly. And
not on the, who paid
for this and why did
this happen? Right. Right. And
to be clear the allowances
just for, for fun stuff,
as you said, so, you
know exactly. We're not paying
rent with allowance, you know,
we're not paying, getting fuel,
you know, the right for
the cars and all that
stuff. Yeah. And, and, and
the other, the other thing
is that when we are
in, in, in tight times
financially tight times, which has
happened, we'll lower the allowance
as a group. Right. We
might say, all right, well,
we're going to get 50
bucks instead of a hundred
bucks as a team. Right.
It's so important to, to
expectations and to not because
the goal here, as you
said at the very beginning
is to avoid resentment and
resentment appears to be the
number one thing that really
causes trouble in the marriage.
It's that festering resentment. Absolutely.
Absolutely. And I think, you
know, women, not to sort
of put women in a
box, but our memories are
so much better married to
a geek or not. I
stand by that statement. It
depends on what you're trying
to remember. The important stuff.
I think women remember the
important stuff and you know,
the internet movie database, who's
that guy, that's a useless
detail to remember, you know,
I'm going to remember how
long we've been married. You
know, I'm gonna remember the
kid's birthday anniversary. Yeah. You
know, and that type of
thing, but it is, it
is really resenting is such
a key thing. And so
there are moments, I think
when I've had to kind
of let stuff go, you've
said that, you know, 10
years into it, I've got
10 years of baggage review
that I remembered As a
person with no memory myself
speaking. It is such a
freeing. It's such a freeing
thing because you seriously remember
arguments that we had at
parties eight years ago, you
know, and you'll say something
like, you always do this.
And like, you know, 2002,
I did that once. I,
and I don't remember these
things. I don't remember last
Tuesday unless I have to
go and check my calendar,
right? Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman from another parallel universe,
got to tell you about
some of our things our
sponsors are doing. They make
this free podcast possible. If
you're developing a new line
of business application, you've probably
tried the latest version of
server light. Now you can
get even better results by
combining the functionality and server
light for beta, with some
of the richness or the
third party controls from our
friends at Tellerik, they're the
first vendors to offer native
support for the server light
for beta and their rad
controls. You've got a new
server light for CTP suite
of these controls. They let
you tap into the frameworks,
great potential. You got native
right mouse click and all
the new features of server
line. There's 38 controls that
give you all these features.
You can start building those
compelling line of business applications
right away. I encourage you
to check those products out
at tellerik.com/light and, you know,
thank Tellerik for supporting Don
and rock supporting Hansel minutes
on their Facebook fan page
at facebook.com/tellerik. Now back to
the show, I'm just like
one of those, it's like
one of those movies with
Robin Williams or I'm living
in the moment and it's
exactly there is no past.
Yeah, Yeah, exactly. Exactly. But
I mean, so what, what
do you want to say
though, about resentment as a
tip? I mean, just obviously
Every system that we've come
up with avoids resentment, if
you build up frustration or
anger or resentment and resentment
is the perfect word for
describing this, then that's what
bites you later. Right? So
one of the other things
we wanted to avoid is
that since you took time
off of working outside the
home, and now you work
inside the home, you worked
in nonprofits for a number
of years, right? And now
you work in another kind
of nonprofit, which is taking
care of the boys. The
idea of having time for
yourself yeah. Became a big
problem. And this was actually,
we, we ended up doing
this for three years before
we actually, we just kind
of went through life for
three years before we came
up with this system. Right.
And I think it was
John Lamb who suggested this at
some point. And the idea
is Mommy and daddy day.
Okay, well, this isn't date
night though. What is mommy?
Day and daddy day. So
basically, I mean, I'm off
the clock. If you will,
at a certain point after
you get home from work,
you know, you're going to
handle, the kids are gonna
make them dinner. You're going
to put them down. You're
going to, you know, basically
you're the one that's responsible
for them. And I get
to just go out and
play. You relax, have a
good time, whatever I want
to do. So you literally
punch out, not literally, but
almost literally. You're like, okay,
it's five Oh one at
six o'clock dad's home from,
from, from work. Right. And
you'll just say, okay, goodbye,
everybody. It's mommy day. And
all the kids were like,
Oh, it's mommy day. Yay.
Yeah. And you'll get in
the car and you'll disappear.
Right. And then you'll come
back, you know, 11 or
midnight or wherever. Right. And
you go to the movies
or you go drive, I've
seen you just drive towards
Seattle and then turn around
and drive back. Cause you
love driving. Yeah. And connect.
Yeah. Try, go. Shopping, connect
with friends, have coffee with
girlfriends. And what have you,
I mean, it's, it's a
fun time to, to connect
with people and to just
let, go and take a
break. Exactly. I love that.
And we alternate mommy and
daddy day. Right. So it's
every other, I think we're
doing a, we're doing it
Wednesdays or Thursdays every other
Wednesday. Say for example, it's
mommy day, last week. It's
daddy day. This week I
used my daddy days recently
to build my arcade machine.
John and I were, I
would go over there. Right.
And this is again, guilt-free
exactly. That's very important. Yeah.
Well, it's a win, win.
I mean, you know, I
tend to get tired right
up in with the kids
all day. And you know,
sometimes I get frustrated. I
mean, they're young, they're high
energy, you know, and it's
it's work. I'm going, going,
going. So it's great to
just let go and recharge
and not have to feel
bad about it. You know,
it's great because it doesn't
cost from a financial point
of view because you're watching
the kids. So we didn't
have the college, you know,
so you'll take care of
the kids. You'll feed them,
you put them down. And
I get to just go
and relax with my friends,
my sister, whoever I want
to see and, and, and
be okay with it. Because
when I come back, I'm
a better mole and a
better mom and a better
wife for it, you know?
So it's a win, win,
win for everybody. And it's
not just mommy day. It's
also daddy day. And this
is the understanding that each
of us works our nine
to five. Right. And this
is really difficult to say,
And clearly mommy's work more
than that, right? Yeah. Nine
to five 30. Really nice.
No, but you know, there
has to be an understanding
that we are each working
full time. Right. And while
it might be easy for
me to say I'm working
harder cause I'm, you know,
deep in thought or whatever,
or you're working harder. Cause
you're having to physically lugged
the boys around the point
is though we're we're on.
Right. And the point of
mommy and daddy day is
to shut off. Exactly. Exactly.
Yeah. And we found that
the regularity of it really
helped because rather than making
it an ad hoc thing,
like, ah, can we make
Friday daddy day? Which you
never really know when they
are in their rent. It's
very randomizing. Right. We went
ahead and we scheduled it
and we said, you know,
every other soul, twice a
month, I get a kid
Mamatina twice a month to
get that day. And that,
that, you know, that consistency
is good for us, but
it's also good for the
kids too, because once they
know this is what happens,
it's not a big deal
anymore. So they can say,
where's mommy. And you can
say mommy on mommy day.
And it's like, Oh, okay.
You know, they understand. And
they don't, they don't fight
as much. Whereas I think
if it's a onesy twosy,
you know, once, once every
other month type of thing,
then they, they sort of
feel like, wait a minute,
you know, this, we don't
do this. This is not
typical for us. Exactly. And
actually recently now that the
boys are old enough to
understand this is extended into
an interesting thing where we
each take one child and
we split off and it's
like, there's a two year
old and a four year
old. So it's like two
day and four day and
you'll take the two and
I'll take the four and
then we'll swap and it'll
be totally focused. So they
know about kind of pampering,
I guess, would be the
word. I mean, this would
be the adult word, but
the idea is that it's
like, one-on-one time with the
child. So we ended up
doing that as well. So
we'll swap back and forth.
And I think I took,
I took the two year
old to see Elmo. And
then you took the four
year old to see a
play and one on one
time. Right? Yeah. It's hard
when you know, your parents
have, you know, multiple kids
just to find that one
on one connection time. Cause
it's, you know, there's two
of them, they're both talking
at the same time and
you want to be there
for both of them, but
it's a challenge. And so
that's really cool too, to
be able to do that
so I can focus on
the, on the Yeah, exactly.
Very good. Yeah. And then
the other thing, I mean,
related to that, you're having
kids and the challenges and
the joys of having kids
is this whole idea of
putting the marriage first. I
think again, if it's someone
that you came up with
Scott, that was really, really
very cool. This whole idea
that the marriage is a
foundation and you build on
it. Okay. So if you
don't take care of the
marriage, everything else is just
gonna fall apart. I remember
when I suggested this, your
initial reaction was negative because
Scott is got the sound
of his stuffing. Scott, Scott,
you literally were like, no,
no, no, the children come
first, right? You're like, there's
no, the kids are first.
But if you put the
kids first where where's the
marriage, right? And while it's
easy to say, well, we'll
put this first. We'll put
that, you know, you want
to put yourself first and
then you wanna put your
kids for then next thing
you know, everything is first.
When you, when you rank
these things, you've got to
say with a good marriage
comes good. Parenting comes good.
Right. Exactly. And I think
once we sort of came
to a consensus on that,
which I will admit did
take me some time. It
then became very easy to,
to teach the kids that
whatever mommy and daddy say
it, we speak as one.
You know, that, that was
the other thing that we
do. We sell them, have
these kinds of fights where
the kids are sort of
caught in the middle because
mommy said yes. And then
daddy said, no, they understand
that if mommy says, no
daddy saying no to Right.
That the, that, that just
never happens. I remember doing
this on my own parents.
The idea of a dad
said, no, well, I won't
tell mom, the dad said
no. And I'll ask mom
I'm will say yes. And
then boom, I'm in having
a unified front. It actually
sits on top of all
of these other systems, which
are all based on the
same idea. Right. And that
kind of comes down to,
it's almost sounds like we're
talking about a business here,
but I guess a marriage,
in some extent is a
business. You know, not having
secrets, information sharing, I guess,
you know, the two year
old or the four year
old wants something and says,
Hey, what are you, what
did, what did mommy say?
What did daddy say? They
never play as against each
other. At least not yet.
I'm sure there'll become a
try. They tried. Well, yeah.
What I'm saying, they never
succeed. Right. So at least
not yet. And all of
that is about sharing information.
Right? Right. Well, I think,
you know, again, it's about
trust ultimately, right? You, you
gotta trust the person that
you're married to and they've
got to know who you
are. So what, what is
there to hide? Right. Right.
Well, your wife or your,
your husband or your spouse,
isn't just your girlfriend that
you live with. I mean,
I think that I forget
who said it, but there
was, there's a big difference
between you're living, you're living
mate and your spouse. If
you hold that marriage thing
as being very sacrosanct, then
it's taking it to a
whole other level. Exactly. Exactly.
So, yeah. I mean, you,
you have access to, to
my email and, and you
know, I have access to
your email. I think again,
that the communication, the conversation
we agreed right off the
bat that we would each
have, you know, we have
the common credit card and
then you have one other
and I have one other,
right. Cause if I want
a surprise, I don't necessarily
want you to see that
type of thing. But if
you have access to that,
even if you didn't up
The fact that like, for
example, that we have a
shit, we have a password
manager that has all of
our passwords, mine and yours.
Right. And if a, if
a picture of me with,
I'm just brainstorming here, there's
nothing I need to tell
you though. It's the picture
of that. I'm just, you
know, there was this time
in Vegas. I have a
picture of me with someone
shows up on Facebook and,
and you say, who the
heck is this? Right? And
I say, well, that was
me eight years ago, or
before we were married or
that was at this party.
There's no, there's no secrets
in that respect. There's no
need to say, Oh, well,
you know, we were at
a party and we, this
was one of the, the
marketing people and we took
pictures and it doesn't have
to be a sense of
something sneaky going on because
there's no, there's no accounts
that you don't have access
to. Right. I mean, again,
trust, right. You know, if
you don't have that, then
you don't really have a
marriage. Exactly. I mean, you
travel, you know, this year
traveled a fair bit. I
mean, you've been all over.
It's been a rough year.
You're in China, you're in
Australia. I mean, you've, you've
been traveling and again, trust
is going to be an
important thing there, but yeah.
It's trust communication. Yep. And
that comes down to, to
setting expectations. Cause when I'm
on the road, there's always
that argument of like, well,
how much did you check
in? So we made a
couple of agreements when we,
and again, setting expectations, setting
expectations. It's amazing how setting
expectations works in business. It
works in life. It works
in relationships with kids. It's
everything. The boys go down
at us. They go to
sleep at a certain time.
Right. So the expectation was
that I will communicate with
you in some way before
the boys go down, no
matter what time zone I'm
in to let you know
whether or not I've, we're
going to have a Skype
call, right. I'll be able
to talk with the boys.
Right. And if, if I'm
on a train or I
can't make it, at least
I can get an SMS,
a text message to you
to say, not going to
make it tonight. Let me
talk to the boys on
the phone or whatever. Exactly.
And I set the whole
system up. So you don't
have to worry about the
Skype and it just works.
Right? Exactly. Absolutely. And actually,
and speaking of, of, of
phone calls, when I call
you and the boys are
being wacky or whatever in
the background, you had this,
you had this tendency to
hang up on, not hang
up, like click, but like
I'm going to go click.
And that really bothered me.
What was that about you,
you would be talking and
I'm, you know, I'm forgetting
that you're at the store
or that the boys are,
I dunno, swinging off the
chandelier's or whatever. And, and
then you would just have
to go and then you
would click. But at the
same time I'd be talking
to you and then somebody
would call it. Maybe Scott
GU would call on the
phone, the other line. And
then I, I need to
switch over quickly. Right. But
in a graceful way. But
there isn't time in these
situations for you to like,
you know, if there's a
child about the vault off
the top of the refrigerator
and you can't exactly explain
that you just need. So
I would be frustrated and
resentful that I would get
hung up on. And you
would be frustrated that you
would get hung up on.
So we basically came up
with an expectation. It wasn't
really a system or anything
you just said one day,
he said, listen, you actually
were pretty funny. Cause you
were, you basically like looked
at me like a child
and you were like, okay,
if I hang up on
you, we're probably not getting
a divorce. Well, I mean,
I think you took it
very personal. Right. But it's
just hanging up on. Someone's
very personal. But if I
can explain my side of
it. Right, exactly. That's right.
Yeah. So what was the,
what was the story and
how do we, how do
we fix that? I think
again, expectations, you know, if
you assume that it is
not my goal to offend
you. Okay. It's not my
goal to just hang up
on you willingly. If you
assume that this is my
wife who loves me, there's
a reason, a compelling reason
for her to do this.
We all else will be
okay. So if I'm sitting
there and I'm watching the
four year old, you know,
for whatever reason, he's managed
to climb on top of
something, as you said on
the chandelier and he's going
to jump down, we don't
have shadow layers. If let's
just imagine The world where
we did. Oh, to be
so fortunate, I could see
him on the kitchen counter
though. Right? Right. He's managed
to climb up there and
then he's, he's, you know,
trying to leave off of
it or whatever. Cause his
brother's standing at the bottom
saying, I'll catch you. I'll
catch you. And he thinks
the two year old can
actually catch him Or, or
a Wednesday, which is what
we would call that. That'd
be The regular Wednesday at
the Hanselman household. Right. Right.
But, but, and you call
it that moment. I have
a couple of choices either.
I just don't pick up
the phone. But because it's
you, that was another agreement
we had that. Especially if
you're on the road, if
you call me, I will
pick up. But I don't
really have the full time
to sort of say, Hey
honey, how's it going? Listen,
hold on the four year
olds about to leave, leave
off the contract. Exactly. So
I would say to you,
I can't talk. I gotta
go quick. Exactly. That's okay.
No, but it wasn't cause
you, you want it. You
want it to know, well,
why do you have to
go explain it to me,
justify it to me. You
know? It's like, I don't
have the time rushed that
I want to talk to
you. Trust. That is a
compelling reason I can do
this moment. Right. So it
seems like a silly thing,
but the assumption is, assume
that this is your wife.
I assume she doesn't hate
your guts. And she will
probably call you back. Right.
So I've had situations where
I've called and it's been
like, you know, ring, ring,
I'll call right back. Right.
And that was it, which
means that, you know, something's
on fire or someone's on
fire and you will call
me when the, they have
been extinguished and inevitably you
do. And the same thing
applies with work stuff. And
I think once you manage
to see from your point
of view of saying, yeah,
you know, when, when my
boss's boss is calling, you
know, I need to go
and I may not be
able to tell you y'all
he's calling. Cause he wants
to schedule a meeting or
whatever. Exactly. Yep. And, and
kind of wrapping it all
up. This whole set of
things there, we had a
mission statement. What is it
that we care about? What
is our marriage? What is
our goal from a life
perspective planning, I'm a free
people, drama free. You can
borrow this. You're going to,
you're going to make t-shirts.
We came up with an
allowance system. We put the
money in one pile. We
pay ourselves first and we
drink the allowance or raise
the allowance based on how
we're doing financially. But the
point is that the administrivia
the minutia of life, the
personal, you know, buy a
book or paperback. We don't
use debit cards for the
one side cash has gone.
It's gone. Right? So to
be clear, we're not buying
a novel with cash. We're
doing it. We're not buying
a novel with a debit
card. If you buy candy,
soda, pop, whatever pants, candy
sort of puppet pants. Those
are the license for the
household pants for all mommy
and daddy day, right beside
just as you pay each
other for your allowance, you
need to set aside, pay
each other in time. Exactly.
Need a break. You deserve
it, enjoy it, come back
better for it. Now It's
not just date night. We
might have date night where
mommy and daddy go out
and do stuff. But this
is more about having mommy
and daddy have time away
from the family, right. Protracted
time. Right. And even a
couple of times we've had
where you, you know, you
go off and use some
of my, my miles, my
airline miles hang out for
three or four days just
so you can decompress trying
to have a unified front
right in front of the
children. And then for us,
we found it really, that
it works for us to
share passwords and share, you
know, you're logging into my
email and I'm logging into
your email and we know
where this one is. Yeah.
Yeah. I mean, I never
had any problem. It's hard
to keep secrets for birthday
parties. Yeah. Yeah. And again,
if the communication is there,
I hardly ever really feel
the need to go into
email account, you know? Cause
Well, there was a time
we were in the middle
of selling a house and
you were looking at my
email, you know, a couple
of weeks ago. And then
there was a time when
you were trying to plan
something for, for a surprise
party and you just said,
your birthday is coming up,
stay out of my email
for the next couple of
weeks. These are easily solved.
And then setting expectations for
being on the road. When,
when are you going to
call, how long are we
going to call? Not having
those days or laws or
hours go by without communication.
Right. Right. And wondering is
he Yeah. I said, okay,
are the kids okay? Yeah,
exactly. And then we had,
we had one problem, the
hang up problem. This is
just an example you may
have, you may have some
other problem, but if you
set expectation for it, it's
amazing how these, these seemingly
large problems just go away.
Yeah. And a lot of
it is, you know, love
the person, right. And trust
that they are not out
to hurt you and the
rest just sort of will
fall away in time. Why
do you think that these
things, these tips work with
geeks, why are these things
Keke specific? Is it because
of our personality types or
do you think this is
going to be more than,
and maybe this is just
relationship tips. Maybe it's not
geek specific. Why do these
work so well for us,
These particular things worked for
us. I think, cause you're
you're you are a geek,
but I mean, I could
see it where similar things,
maybe not necessarily in this
specific format, but the concept
is good for all relationships.
I think this is important
stuff you want to have
regardless of who you are
and who you're married to.
These particular ones just happened
to work for us because
you're such a weirdo, but
we've come to love you
as you are. Well, I
think the point is though
to realize how each person
thinks and set up a
system that doesn't necessarily cater
too much to their personality
types. But at least as
a realization that we have,
we have these differences that,
that these things matter like
that, the hangups thing, you
had no idea that I
was taking the hangups personally.
Right. But once that came
out, I was like, all
right, well let's just come
up with a basic system.
Not complicated. None of these
systems involve charts or graphs.
I mean, nothing here involves
big old calendars or complexity.
Yeah. I mean the truth
is any, any relationship is
going to be work to
a certain extent. Right. So
be willing to invest in
it, be willing to commit
to it, you know? And
when, once you say this,
this is important to me,
then this will go a
long way towards helping you.
That's good. Thank you. Alright,
let's go to the beach.
This has been another episode
of Hanselminutes and we'll see
you again next week.